# CS-340-Client-Server-Development---Journal-8-2
#### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
- Writing programs that are mintainable, readable, and adaptable is key to becoming a successful developer. It will not only make the life easier for yourself as a developer, but will make it easier for future developers to be able to read and maintain the program. Whether the code is being used in the future or not, it is important to get into this type of habit.
- The advantages of connecting a dashboard widget, such as CRUD using Python, to a database is allowing the program the addition of new capabilities and functionality. This allows the architecture to be designed to accommodate changes easily. I can use this method in the future for other projects. 
#### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
- Computer scientists need to be open minded. This can mean a variety of things to others, especially when facing a problem. For me, I find this being a key trait and being open to the team's advice and ideas. Being open minded and search for alternate solutions, which can lead you into a better direction at solving a problem. 
- In the project with Grazioso Salvare, the first step is to understand what the client is asking. Finding out their big picture and then breaking it down into steps or categories, such as an Agile approach. This allows me to understand what is needed to complete the project successfully. This project differed slightly as I needed to implement the code precisely in order for the dashboard to communicate accurately with the database and vise versa. As I continue to develop these skills I can use them on future client projects as well. 
#### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
The simpliest way to explain the job of a computer scientist is solving problems using software and hardware. A computer scientist will provide a solution to make the life easier for their clients or themselves. Just as the project with Grazioso Salvare, we took their data and provided and easy to use database to filter out specific animals. It gave them a list to make their job easier for search and rescue. Computer scientists allow themselves and businesses maximize efficiency.
